Chapter 1: Introduction / Open Competition Domain Science-M
Content
1 Introduction 1
1.1 Background 1
1.2 Available budget 2
1.3 Submission deadline(s) 3
2 Aim 4
2.1 Aim of the programme 4
2.2 Societal impact 4
3 Conditions for applicants 6
3.1 Who can apply 6
3.2 What can be applied for 8
3.3 Preparing an application 11
3.4 Conditions for submission 12
3.5 Conditions on granting 13
4 Assessment procedure 16
4.1 The San Francisco Declaration (DORA) 16
4.2 Procedure 16
4.3 Criteria 20
5 Obligations for grant recipients 22
5.1 Additional terms and conditions 22
6 Contact and other information 24
6.1 Contact 24
6.2 Other information 24
7 Annexes: 25
7.1 Overview of Domain Science research areas 25
7.2 Explanation of budget modules 28
7.3 Procedure Weave proposals with NWO as partner agency 33
7.4 Glossary International cooperation 39
1
Chapter 1: Introduction / Open Competition Domain Science-M
1 Introduction
In this Call for proposals information is provided about the application procedure for the Open
Competition Domain Science-M funding round 2024-2025 and the conditions for bilateral applications
via the Weave principle. This Call for proposals falls under the responsibility of the Dutch Research
Council (NWO).
In this Call for proposals you will find information about the aim of this programme (Chapter 2), the
conditions for the grant application (Chapter 3) and how your proposal will be assessed (Chapter 4).
This is the information you need to submit a grant application. Chapter 5 states the obligations for
grant recipients in the event you are awarded funding. Chapter 6 contains the contact details and
Chapter 7 the annexes.
1.1 Background
NWO advances world-class scientific research. Scientific research – fundamental, applied and practiceoriented research – plays a key role in shaping our society. Through their independent, reliable and
world-class research, researchers expand the frontiers of our knowledge and capabilities with their
creativity and perseverance.
NWO Domain Science (NWO-domein Exacte en Natuurwetenschappen (ENW)) wants to provide
opportunity for wonder, discovery, unexpected links and inspiration. Within the Open Competition of
the Domain Science, NWO finances curiosity-driven research within the research areas of the Domain
Science. The research subject is of your own choice without specific thematic prerequisites.
There are three types of funding in the NWO Open Competition Domain Science: XS, M and XL which
all have their specific aim and conditions. A promising idea can be quickly explored with a Domain
Science-XS-grant and can be further explored with a Domain Science-M-grant. The Domain Science-XLgrants allow for the advancement of the research idea into a world-class, challenging and innovative
research line by combining the expertise and strengths of multiple researchgroups to work together in
a consortium. For more information about the Domain Science-XS and –M grants we refer you to the
respective Call for proposals on the NWO webpage.
1.1.1 Non-thematic international cooperation through Weave
Weave is a cross-European initiative set up by European research funders and embedded in Science
Europe through which 12 European research funders currently fund cross-border research with
partner countries, see https://Weave-research.net/. Through the lead agency principle, researchers
can collaborate bottom-up with partners from member countries/regions, for proposals concerning a
fundamental research question. The aim of Weave is to simplify assessment procedures by having
applicants submit to a single research funder ('lead agency') that is responsible for further scientific
evaluation. Upon granting, the other countries' research funders ('partner agencies') fund their ‘own
researchers’ and thus typically follow the decision of the lead agency where the proposal was
submitted. 
2
Chapter 1: Introduction / Open Competition Domain Science-M
NWO is not an official partner within the Weave consortium yet, but is exploring whether it could
eventually become one. To this end, the Domain Science is running a pilot within this Call for proposals
with partners from Germany and Flanders. NWO has made agreements with the Deutsche
Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) in Germany and with the Fonds Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek -
Vlaanderen (FWO) on funding bilateral projects according to the Weave principle. Cooperation with
one or more German or Flemish researchers is possible by submitting a Weave proposal to DFG, FWO
or NWO. Trilateral projects, in which both DFG, FWO and NWO act as research funders, are excluded
for the time being.
Where this Call for proposals refers to a 'Dutch applicant', it means an applicant working at the
institutions defined in section 3.1, and therefore does not refer to the nationality of the applicant.
'German or Flemish (co-)applicant' refers to an applicant who meets the submission requirements of
DFG or FWO respectively, and therefore does not refer to the nationality/origin of the applicant.
If the proposal is submitted in the Netherlands, NWO acts as lead agency (ENW-M-1-Weave). In that
case the proposal will be considered and assessed in accordance with the application procedure as
described in this Call for proposals. Where this Call for proposals refers to 'submission to NWO' this
refers to both national ENW-M proposals and bilateral ENW-M-1-Weave/LUX proposals (where NWO is
the lead agency).
When the proposal is submitted to DFG or FWO, NWO acts as partner agency. The application is then
processed according to the evaluation procedure of the lead agency’s funding instrument. If NWO acts
as partner agency, NWO checks amongst other things whether the Dutch co-applicant and the Dutch
part of the budget meet the conditions of this Call for proposals. To this end the proposal must be
submitted administratively to NWO (administrative submission). The conditions and the full procedure
if NWO acts as partner agency are described in the appendix (section 7.3). Section 7.4 includes a
Weave glossary.
1.1.2 Changes since the previous Call for proposals
The Call for proposals Open Competition Domain Science-M, round 2024-2025 is a further
development of the ENW-M call of recent years. Compared to the Call for proposals of Open
Competition Domain Science-M, round 2023-2024, two major changes have been made:
- Adding the possibility of cooperation with researchers from Germany or Flanders. This can be done
by submitting a bilateral Weave proposal. A Weave proposal can be submitted to NWO (see section
3.2.1), or to DFG or FWO (see section 7.3 for the conditions for the Dutch part of the proposal).
- The M-invest proposal option for the sole purpose of an investment disappears. Instead, it becomes
possible to apply for an investment of maximum size of €500,000 on top of an M-1 proposal (see
section 3.2, ENW-M-1X).
1.2 Available budget
1.2.1 Proposals submitted to NWO, including ENW-M-1-Weave/LUX proposals
The subsidy ceiling for proposals submitted to NWO for the period is € 50,000,000. Proposals can be
submitted continuously within this period. The budget available will be distributed according to the
following:
− a maximum of five packages, each consisting of a maximum of three clusters, will be taken into
consideration in the period mentioned;
− each package consists of up to 84 proposals that will complete the assessment procedure. A
package will be closed once 84 proposals have been taken into consideration in that package;
3
Chapter 1: Introduction / Open Competition Domain Science-M
− for each package, approximately € 10,000,000 is available. From this, an amount of € 1,200,000
will be earmarked for at most three proposals that will be awarded funding via preferential
treatment;
− the distribution of the subsidy ceiling per package among the clusters follows a weighted
distribution based on total budget requested per cluster;
− for each package, first the highest-ranked proposals up to € 8,800,000 will be awarded funding.
These are the regular allocations. Subsequently, from the earmarked amount, a maximum of three
proposals will be additionally awarded funding via preferential treatment, one in each cluster. N.B.
this will not include the proposals already allocated funding via the regular route that are also
eligible for preferential treatment;
− An ENW-M-1-Weave proposal must finish in the top 6 of the ranking per cluster to be awarded. If
a Weave proposal ends up outside the top 6 of the ranking per cluster and the NWO-part of the
Weave proposal falls within the available budget of the cluster, NWO can consult with the partner
agency about awarding of the relevant Weave proposal. In this case awarding will depend on the
financial scope available to the partner agency;
− If there are residual budgets in the clusters, the combined residual budget is allocated according
to the method described in section 4.2.9.
If for the last package less than 84 proposals, but at least 28 admissible proposals, are submitted, then
the last package will consist of these proposals. The budget available for awarding funding to the
highest-ranked proposals and the budget for awarding grants to the proposals with a preferential
treatment will, in that case, be proportionately reduced. If in the last package, fewer than 28
admissible proposals are submitted, then these proposals will be added to the penultimate package.
The budget available for awarding funding to the highest-ranked proposals and the budget for
awarding grants to proposals with a preferential treatment will, in that case, be proportionately
increased.
1.3 Submission deadline(s)
You can submit your proposal at any moment from 6 August 2024 up to and including 31 July 2025,
14:00:00 CEST, with the exception of ENW-M-1-Weave proposals with FWO as partner agency, which
may be submitted from 1 December 2024 to 28 February 2025 14:00:00 CET.
If an ENW-M-1-Weave or ENW-M-1-LUX proposal (see section 3.1) is submitted to NWO, an
administrative submission of the proposal to the foreign partner agency must also be made within
seven calendar days of submission to NWO.
4
Chapter 2: Aim / Open Competition Domain Science-M
2 Aim
This chapter describes the aim of the programme and the societal impact.
2.1 Aim of the programme
ENW-M grants are intended for curiosity-driven fundamental scientific research with impact. Impact
includes both scientific and societal impact, and the programme allows a choice between scientific
impact, societal impact, or both; see the assessment criteria in Section 4.3.1. Section 2.2 explains how
societal impact is interpreted within the programme, which focuses on curiosity-driven fundamental
scientific research.
ENW-M grants give researchers the opportunity and freedom to initiate or to build on excellent,
challenging and innovative research lines, both mono disciplinary, multidisciplinary and
interdisciplinary. ENW-M funding focuses on small-scale research projects in which a concrete research
project is central. An investment may be crucial to properly carry out the high-quality proposed
research. Research projects in method development or instrumentation development also fall within
the scope of this funding instrument. These projects, like the other proposals, are assessed based on
quality and impact as specified in section 4.3.
This funding instrument is open for proposals with a research question in or overlapping the fields of
earth sciences, astronomy, chemistry, computer science, life sciences, physics and mathematics.
Proposals can be both mono disciplinary, multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary. For applications with a
(partial) domain-overarching and/or ZonMw component, the core of the research proposal should fit
one or more of the seven disciplines of the Domain Science, see Section 3.3.1. The disciplines and
research areas of Domain Sciences are listed in Section 7.1.
2.2 Societal impact
New knowledge and insights from scientific research can make an important contribution to
developing solutions for the various issues society faces, including, amongst other things, the energy
transition, health and care, or climate change. By facilitating greater interaction and alignment
between researchers and potential knowledge users, the chance of knowledge utilisation increases, as
well as the likelihood of generating societal impact. Through its policy on impact, NWO promotes the
potential contribution that research can make to societal issues by encouraging productive
interactions with societal stakeholders, both during the development stage and the subsequent
implementation of research. It does so in a manner that is in accordance with the aim of the particular
funding instrument.
2.2.1 Tailor-made impact
The primary aim of the funding instrument determines the method that NWO will deploy to facilitate
knowledge utilisation in various phases of the project (proposal, realisation, project completion) as
well as the effort required from the applicant(s) and partner(s).
In this programme, the Impact Outlook approach is applied. Here, researchers can choose which type
of impact they want to specifically focus on, while proportional consideration is also given to what can
be done for the remaining impact.
5
Chapter 2: Aim / Open Competition Domain Science-M
NWO offers an e-learning module that can help interested parties via NWO Impact - Online workshops.
For more information on our policy on impact, please visit the website: Knowledge utilisation | NWO. 
6
Chapter 3: Conditions for applicants / Open Competition Domain Science-M
3 Conditions for applicants
This chapter contains the conditions that are applicable to your grant application. Firstly it describes
who can apply for funding (Section 3.1) and what you can request funding for (Section 3.2).
Subsequently, you will find the conditions for preparing and submitting the application (Sections 3.3
and 3.4) and the specific funding conditions (Section 3.5).
3.1 Who can apply
Full, associate and assistant professors and other researchers with a comparable position* may submit
an application if they have a tenured position (and therefore a paid position for an indefinite period) or
a tenure track agreement at one of the following organisations:
− universities located in the Kingdom of the Netherlands;
− university medical centres;
− institutes affiliated to the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences (KNAW) or NWO;
− Netherlands Cancer Institute;
− the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics in Nijmegen;
− Naturalis Biodiversity Center;
− Advanced Research Centre for NanoLithography (ARCNL);
− Princess Máxima Center.
− The Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute (KNMI);
− IHE Delft Institute for Water Education.
*A comparable position refers to a researcher that has a demonstrable and comparable number of
years of experience in carrying out scientific research and supervising other researchers as a full,
associate or assistant professor.
** Persons with a contract for a limited period of time (other than a tenure track appointment) may
not submit a proposal, except for the following exception. Researchers with a one-year or a two-year
employment contract who are expected to be offered a permanent employment contract after the
initial one-year or two-year period has elapsed, are also eligible to submit a proposal. In such cases,
applicants should add a statement from their employer, confirming that the relevant organization will
offer the applicant a permanent position if their performance meets the required standards. Persons
with a zero-hour employment agreement may not submit a proposal.
It could be the case that the applicant’s tenure track agreement ends before the intended completion
date of the project for which funding is applied for, or that before that date, the applicant’s tenured
contract ends due to the applicant reaching retirement age. In that case, the applicant needs to include
a statement from their employer in which the organisation concerned guarantees that the project and
all project members for whom funding has been requested will receive adequate supervision for the
full duration of the project.
Applicants with a part-time contract should guarantee adequate supervision of the project and all
project members for whom funding is requested.
Extra conditions (applies to both the main applicant and co-applicants):
− ENW-M-1 and ENW-M-1X have a single main applicant and no co-applicants.
− ENW-M-2 has a single main applicant and a single co-applicant who work together and whose
expertise is complementary. Main applicant and co-applicant may be employed by the same
organization, as long as their expertise is complementary.
7
Chapter 3: Conditions for applicants / Open Competition Domain Science-M
− On the NWO side, ENW-M-1-Weave has one main applicant who meets the conditions set out
in this Call for proposals and one or more co-applicants who meet the conditions of DFG or
FWO. Trilateral applications are not possible.
− ENW-M-1-LUX has one lead applicant who meets the conditions set out in this Call for
proposals, and one co-applicant who meets the conditions of FNR.
− For ENW-M-1-Weave and ENW-M-1-LUX applications submitted to NWO, the Dutch applicant
should be the lead applicant.
− After substantive consideration of an ENW-M proposal, including a Weave proposal,
regardless of whether NWO or DFG/FWO is lead agency, Dutch applicants are subject to a
mandatory waiting period of 12 calendar months before a new application may be submitted,
regardless of whether a researcher is involved in the role of lead or co-applicant. This period
starts from the original submission date of a proposal that meets the conditions for
submission.
− If the budget module Money follows Cooperation (MfC) is included in an ENW-M-2 proposal,
the foreign knowledge institution of the co-applicant must meet the requirements in Article
1.1, paragraph 3 of the NWO Grant Rules 2017, with the exception of the condition that the
co-applicant must be established in the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
The representation and promotion of women in science lags considerably behind that of men. NWO
therefore strongly encourages women to submit proposals.
3.1.1 Main and co-applicants
The main applicant submits the proposal via the NWO web application ISAAC. During the assessment
process, NWO will communicate with the main applicant.
After a proposal has been awarded funding, the main applicant will become the project leader and
point of contact for NWO. The knowledge institution of the main applicant is the main beneficiary and
will become the official secretary.
The optional co-applicant has an active role in realising the project. The (sub)project leaders and
beneficiary/beneficiaries are jointly responsible for realising the entire project.
3.1.2 Preferential treatment for new tenured members of staff and tenure
trackers
To simplify the acquisition of funding for starting researchers they can make use of a one-off request
for preferential treatment. This only applies to ENW-M-1 proposals (and not ENW-M-1X, ENW-M-1-
weave, ENW-M-1-LUX, ENW-M-2 proposals) . Starting researchers must satisfy the following
requirements:
− the starting researcher is at the beginning of their scientific career;
− the starting researcher has the option to apply for a preferential treatment during two years. This
two-year period is calculated from the first temporary or tenured appointment as referred to in
Section 3.1, whichever comes first;
− prior to the submission date, the starting researcher has not received any previous support in the
Open Competition Domain Science M or XL, in its predecessors or in the form of a Vidi or Vici
grant from the NWO Talent Programme;
− the starting researcher has not previously requested this preferential treatment or its
predecessor. 
8
Chapter 3: Conditions for applicants / Open Competition Domain Science-M
For applicants requesting preferential treatment and for whom the final submission date falls during
the period that the call for proposals OC ENW-M, round 2024-2025 has been closed and round 2025-
2026 will be opened, the final submission date is extended till 1 September 2025.
Extension clause
The extension clause allows applicants requesting preferential treatment under ENW-M-1 an
extension to their two-year application deadline if they can demonstrate that they have taken a period
of care leave or sick leave during that period, or that they have had one or more children during that
period. It is not only applicants who have been absent from work due to pregnancy leave or maternity
leave who are eligible for the extension clause. Applicants on adoption leave, partners’ leave and leave
in relation to the arrival of a foster child are also eligible for the extension clause.
Upon applying for preferential treatment, the biological mother of the child is entitled to an extension
of 16 weeks per child and the other parent is eligible for an extension of 5 weeks per child. Extensions
for parents are only granted if the children are part of the same household. In the case of long-term
illness or care leave involving a first-degree relative, any reduction in working time is compensated. In
all cases, the maximum extension is one year.
How do you request preferential treatment (with extension)?
To request preferential treatment, the application must be accompanied by a separate covering letter
in which the applicant outlines the extent to which the conditions mentioned above are fulfilled (see
the template available on the website). If you make use of the extension clause, a statement must also
be provided by your organization showing when exactly you took abovementioned leave. The manner
in which NWO applies preferential treatment is described in Section 4.1.11.
3.2 What can be applied for
ENW-M-1
An ENW-M-1 grant has a maximum size of € 400,000 and has a single main applicant and no coapplicants. The grant must be used for a single temporary scientific position (PhD or postdoc) in
combination with the other budget modules available. The module Investments (€ 150,000 to €
500,000) and the module Money follows Cooperation are not available for this type of grant.
ENW-M-1-X
An ENW-M-1 proposal can be extended to include an investment required for the research to be
carried out. This variant is called ENW-M-1X. Requested funding for ENW-M-1X has a maximum size of
€800,000 and has one main applicant, no co-applicants. The funding must be used for one temporary
scientific position (PhD or postdoc) and an investment via the Investment module (€ 150,000 to €
500,000), in combination with the other available budget modules. The Money follows Cooperation
module is not available in this funding form.
ENW-M-1-Weave
An ENW-M-1-Weave proposal has one Dutch lead applicant and one or more co-applicants from
Germany or Flanders working together to carry out the proposed research. The maximum funding
requested from NWO is €400,000. The funding applied for at NWO must be used for one temporary
scientific position (PhD or postdoc) in combination with the other available budget modules. The
Investment module (€ 150,000 to € 500,000) and the Money follows Cooperation module are not
available in this funding form. Funding requested via Weave from DFG or FWO can be spent in
accordance with the conditions set by DFG or FWO.
9
Chapter 3: Conditions for applicants / Open Competition Domain Science-M
ENW-M-1-LUX
An ENW-M-1-LUX proposal has one main applicant from the Netherlands and one co-applicant from
Luxembourg working together to carry out the proposed research. The maximum funding requested
from NWO is €400,000. The funding requested from NWO must be used for one temporary scientific
position (PhD or postdoc) in combination with the other available budget modules. The Investment
module (€ 150,000 to € 500,000) and the Money follows Cooperation module are not available in this
funding form. Funding requested from FNR is to be spent in accordance with the conditions set by FNR.
ENW-M-2
An ENW-M-2 grant has a maximum size of € 800,000 and has a single main applicant and a single coapplicant who work together to realise the proposed research. Main applicant and co-applicant may be
employed by the same organisation, as long as their expertise is complementary. The grant must be
used for two temporary scientific positions (PhD or postdoc) in combination with the other budget
modules available with the exception of the module Investments (€ 150,000 to € 500,000). The
scientific positions must be equally allocated across both collaborating applicants.
Budget modules
budget modules (including the maximum amount) available for this Call for proposals are listed in the
table below. Apply only for funding that is vital to realise the project. A more detailed explanation of
the budget modules can be found in the annexe to this Call for proposals (7.2).
Budget module Maximum amount
PhD student according to UNL or UNF rates1
Postdoc according to UNL or NFU rates1
Non-scientific staff (NSS) at universities €100,000, according to UNL or NFU rates1
; in combination with
PhD student(s) and or postdoc(s)1
Material costs €15,000 per year per FTE scientific position
Investments (up to €150,000) Maximum €150,000
Investments (€150,000 to €500,000) Greater than or equal to €150,000 (for data collections, a
minimum of €25,000 applies) and less than or equal to
€500,000, with 25% contribution by the applying research
institution
Knowledge utilisation €25,000
Internationalisation €25,000
Money follows Cooperation Less than 50% of the total budget applied for
1
 For personnel outside the Netherlands, the local rates are reimbursed. These rates are capped at a maximum equal to the UNL rates
corrected by the NWO Country correction coefficients (CCC) table, see Money Follows Cooperation | NWO. 
10
Chapter 3: Conditions for applicants / Open Competition Domain Science-M
3.2.1 Cooperation with researchers abroad
Within this Call for proposals, there are several options to apply for funding to collaborate with
researchers abroad. Please contact NWO (see section 6.1.1) if you would like more information about
this.
- Travel and accommodation expenses for foreign guest researchers can be reimbursed through the
Internationalisation budget module;
- travel and accommodation costs (including working visits, internships, and research stays) for the
requested personnel positions are eligible within the Materiel budget module. Project-related services,
such as (laboratory) analyses by a foreign partner, are also reimbursable within the Material budget
module;
- the Money follows Cooperation budget module gives the possibility to carry out part of the project at
a knowledge institution with a public task outside the Netherlands, for example by appointing a
temporary scientific employee at that knowledge institution.
For more information, see the notes to the budget modules in section 7.2.
Specific arrangements exist in this Call for proposals for the appointment of temporary scientific
personnel in collaborative projects with researchers from Germany, Luxembourg and Flanders (ENWM-1-Weave, ENW-M-1-LUX). As a result of the lead agency principle underlying the agreements with
Germany, Luxembourg and Flanders, it is not possible to use the Money follows Cooperation budget
module for these countries/regions.
Collaboration with Germany or Flanders
NWO has made agreements with DFG and FWO to (co)fund bilateral projects according to the Weave
principle. With NWO as lead agency, an ENW-M-1 proposal can be extended with at least one coapplicant from Germany or from Flanders, creating an ENW-M-1-Weave proposal. Trilateral proposal
are excluded for the time being. The foreign component does not count in determining maximum
budget size on the Dutch side. Funding can be requested for a maximum of 3 years in an ENW-M-1-
Weave application with DFG as partner agency. Accordingly, it is not possible to apply for a PhD
student on the Dutch side in an ENW-M-1-Weave application with Germany. Funding for a maximum
of 4 years can be applied for in an ENW-M-1-Weave with FWO as partner agency.
For submission conditions of the German co-applicant, for announcement see:
https://www.dfg.de/en/news/news-topics/announcements-proposals
For submission conditions of the Flemish co-applicant, see: https://www.fwo.be/en/supportprogrammes/all-calls/senior-researchersresearch-teams/weave-fwo-partner/ en
https://www.fwo.be/en/support-programmes/all-calls/senior-researchersresearch-teams/junior-andsenior-research-project/
The conditions that apply if NWO acts as partner agency and DFG or FWO acts as lead agency are
described in section 7.3.
11
Chapter 3: Conditions for applicants / Open Competition Domain Science-M
Collaboration with Luxembourg
NWO has made agreements with the Fonds National de la Recherche (FNR) in Luxembourg about the
joint funding of bilateral projects. Collaboration with a research group from Luxembourg is possible by
expanding an ENW-M-1 proposal with the Luxembourgian equivalent of ENW-M-1, effectively creating
a bilateral ENW-M-2 proposal (ENW-M-1-LUX). The foreign component does not count for determining
the maximum budget size on the Dutch side. NWO considers the bilateral proposal as an ENW-M-2
grant (proposal) and will assess the proposal in its entirety in consultation with the FNR. Please contact
NWO (see Section 6.1.1) if you are considering this variant or if you would like to receive further
information about this.
Researchers affiliated to a Luxembourgian research group and involved in an ENW-M-1-LUX proposal
must comply to the conditions of the FNR INTER programme (https://www.fnr.lu/fundinginstruments/inter/). Please note that agreements with FNR on cooperation with Luxembourg are not
made according to the Weave principle. FNR therefore does not accept applications with a Dutch coapplicant in the INTER Programme.
3.3 Preparing an application
The steps involved in writing your application are:
− download the application form from the NWO web application ISAAC or from the NWO web page
(on the grant page of the funding instrument concerned);
− complete the application form;
− save the application form in ISAAC as a PDF file and upload it with any compulsory annexes;
− fill in the requested information online in ISAAC.
Compulsory annex(es):
− budget (for the budget requested from NWO) - always compulsory;
− budget (for the budget requested from the foreign partner (DFG, FNR, FWO)) - mandatory for
bilateral application;
− Declaration of appointment and project supervision - mandatory for applicant whose appointment
does not cover the entire duration of the project and mandatory in case of application for
preferential treatment;
− Declaration of own contribution to investment - compulsory for ENW-M-1X proposal.
Optional annex(es) only:
− request for preferential treatment,
− declaration of support from collaboration partners, without co-funding;
− quotation from external party that provides (an indication of) the cost of the requested
investment.
The appendix must be drawn up in accordance with the template provided by NWO. Annexes must be
uploaded in ISAAC separately from the application. The NWO-budget must be submitted in ISAAC as an
Excel file. All of the other annexes, except for the budget, must be submitted as PDF files (without
encryption). Any annexes other than those stated above are not permitted.
You must write your application in English.
An application can only be submitted via the web application ISAAC. Applications that are not
submitted via ISAAC will not be taken into consideration. 
12
Chapter 3: Conditions for applicants / Open Competition Domain Science-M
As the main applicant, you are required to submit the application via your own personal ISAAC
account.
It is important to start with your application in ISAAC on time:
− if you do not yet have an ISAAC account, then you should create this on time to prevent any
possible registration problems;
− any new organisations must also be added to ISAAC by NWO;
− you also need to submit other details online.
The call OC ENW-M, round 2024-2025 will be closed by the board of the NWO domain Science (domain
board ENW) as soon as the 84th proposal in the 4th package has been taken into consideration (total
336th proposal). In that case, it will be stated on the NWO funding page that the Open Competition
ENW-M has been paused. From August 2025, applications can be submitted in the 2025-2026 round,
for which the call for proposals will be published in due time. Applicants whose proposal in OC ENW-M
round 2023-2024 was not substantively considered due to closure of the round, may submit an ENWM proposal in OC ENW-M round 2024-2025. This applies to all proposals received by NWO after the
84th proposal in the 5th package of round 2023-2024 has been taken in consideration.
Applications submitted after the deadline will not be taken into consideration by NWO.
For technical questions, please contact the ISAAC helpdesk, see contact (Chapter 6).
Does a main and/or co-applicant work at an organisation that is not included in the ISAAC database?
You can report this via relatiebeheer@nwo.nl so that the organisation can be added. This will take
several days. It is therefore important that you report this at least one week before the deadline.
Applicants are expected to have informed the organization where they work about submitting the
application and that the organisation accepts the grant conditions of this Call for proposals.
3.3.1 Advice about substantive suitability
For this Call for proposals, your application must fit in the NWO Domain Science, see Section 2.2. .
Therefore, please consider well ahead of time whether your application meets the substantive criteria.
In the event of any doubt, for instance because your application (partly) encompasses various domains
and/or has a ZonMw character, then please get in touch with the contact person for this programme
well in advance of the deadline. This person can advise you about the substantive connection between
your application and this Call for proposals. Please note that the final choice is yours. For contact
details please see Section 6.1.1.
3.4 Conditions for submission
3.4.1 Formal conditions for submission
NWO will assess your application against the conditions listed below. Your application will only be
admitted to the assessment procedure if it meets these conditions. After submitting your application,
NWO requests you to be available to implement any possible administrative corrections so that you
can (still) meet the conditions for submission.
These conditions are:
− the main applicant and optional co-applicant of an ENW-M-2 proposal meet the conditions stated
in Section 3.1;
− the application complies with the DORA guidelines as described in Section 4.1;
13
Chapter 3: Conditions for applicants / Open Competition Domain Science-M
− the application form is, after a possible request to make additions or changes, complete and filled
out according to the instructions;
− the application is submitted via the main applicant’s ISAAC account;
− For ENW-M-1-Weave and ENW-M-1-LUX applications: the corresponding administrative
submission has been submitted to the foreign partner (DFG, FWO or FNR) on time and meets the
foreign partner's requirements;
− the application is received before the deadline;
− the application is written in English;
− the application budget is drawn up in accordance with the conditions for this Call for proposals;
− the proposed project has a duration of at most 6 years. Exception: a proposed ENW-M-1-Weave
project with Germany or Flanders has a maximum duration of 3 (in the case of DFG) and 4 years
(in the case of FWO), respectively;
− all of the required annexes are, after a possible request to make additions or changes, complete
and filled out according to the instructions.
3.4.2 Parental leave
For instruments in which no co-applicants can be entered, NWO offers applicants who take parental
leave during the assessment period due to the arrival of a child, the possibility to make use of the
'Compensation scheme for parental leave'. This scheme applies to this Call for proposals. For more
information, please see Compensation scheme for parental leave.
In case of ENW-M-1 or ENW-M-1X: If an applicant wants to make use of this compensations scheme,
then a written request for this, supported by reasons, should be submitted to NWO via the contact
person for this funding round. With this request, the applicant should provide all information that
NWO needs to take a decision, including information from which it is clear that the applicant is
hindered from providing input due to childcare leave.
3.5 Conditions on granting
The NWO Grant Rules 2017 and the Agreement on the Payment of Costs for Scientific Research are
applicable to all applications.
3.5.1 Compliance with the National Knowledge Security Guidelines
World-class science can benefit from international cooperation. The National Knowledge Security
Guidelines (hereafter: the Guidelines) helps knowledge institutions to ensure that international
cooperation can take place securely. Knowledge security concerns the undesirable transfer of sensitive
knowledge and technology that compromises national security; the covert influence of state actors on
education and research, which jeopardises academic freedom and social safety; and ethical issues that
may arise in cooperation with countries that do not respect fundamental rights.
Applicants are responsible for ensuring that their project complies and will continue to comply with
the Guidelines. By submitting an application, the applicant commits to the recommendations
stipulated in these Guidelines. In the event of a suspected breach of the Guidelines in an application
submitted to NWO for project funding, or in a project funded by NWO, NWO may ask the applicant to
provide a risk assessment demonstrating that the recommendations in the Guidelines have been taken
into consideration. If the applicant fails to comply with NWO’s request, or if the risk assessment is in
apparent breach of the Guidelines, this may affect NWO’s grant award or decision-making process.
NWO may also include further conditions in the award letter if appropriate. 
14
Chapter 3: Conditions for applicants / Open Competition Domain Science-M
The National Knowledge Security Guidelines can be found on the central government website at:
Home | National Contact Point for Knowledge Security (loketkennisveiligheid.nl).
3.5.2 Data management
The results of scientific research must be replicable, verifiable and falsifiable. In the digital age, this
means that, in addition to publications, research data must also be publicly accessible insofar as this is
possible. NWO expects that research data resulting from NWO-funded projects will be made publicly
available, as much as possible, for reuse by other researchers. “As open as possible, as closed as
necessary” is the applicable principle in this respect. Researchers, at very least, are expected to make
the data and/or non-numerical results that underlie the conclusions of the published work resulting
from the project publicly available at the same time as the work’s publication. Any costs incurred for
this can be included in the project budget. Researchers should explain how data emerging from the
project will be dealt with based on the data management section in the proposal and the data
management plan that is drawn up after funding is awarded.
Data management Section
The data management section is part of the proposal. Researchers are asked before the start of the
research to consider how the data collected will be ordered and categorised so that this can be made
publicly available. Measures will often already need to be taken, both during data genertation and as
part of analysing the data, to make its subsequent storage and dissemination possible. If it is not
possible to make all data from the project publicly available, for example due to reasons of privacy,
ethics or valorisation, then the applicant is obliged to list the reasons for this in the data management
section.
The data management section in the proposal is not evaluated and will therefore not be weighed in
the decision whether to award funding. However, both the referees and the committee can issue
advice with respect to the data management section.
3.5.3 Scientific integrity
In accordance with the NWO Grant Rules 2017, the project that NWO funds must be carried out in
accordance with the nationally and internationally accepted standards for scientific conduct as stated
in the Netherlands Code of Conduct for Research Integrity (2018). By submitting the proposal, the
applicant commits to this code. In the case of a (possible) violation of these standards during a project
funded by NWO, the applicant should immediately inform NWO of this and should submit all relevant
documents to NWO. More information about the code of conduct and the policy regarding research
integrity can be found on the website: Scientific integrity | NWO.
3.5.4 Ethical statement or licence
The applicant is responsible for determining whether an ethical statement or licence is needed for the
realisation of the proposed project. The applicant should ensure that this is obtained from the relevant
institution or ethics committee on time. The absence or presence of an ethical statement or licence at
the time of the application process has no effect on the assessment of the application. If the project is
awarded funding, then the grant is issued under the condition that the necessary ethical statement or
licence is obtained before the latest start date for the project. The project cannot start until NWO has
received a copy of the ethical statement or licence.
15
Chapter 3: Conditions for applicants / Open Competition Domain Science-M
3.5.5 Nagoya Protocol
The Nagoya Protocol ensures an honest and reasonable distribution of benefits emerging from the use
of genetic resources (Access and Benefit Sharing; ABS). Researchers who make use of genetic sources
from the Netherlands or abroad for their research should familiarise themselves with the Nagoya
Protocol (ABS Focal Point - ABS Focal Point). NWO assumes that researchers will take all necessary
actions with respect to the Nagoya Protocol.